You might be in France already.
No, I'm going to France on Monday.
Oh, next week?
Yeah.
Okay, listen, I didn't hear what you told David.
Did you have a few minutes now or should we?
Yeah, I guess you might as well do it now.
I mean, I might have a million things to do anyway.
God knows when you get me.
It's just going to be about ten minutes is all we need.
Okay, is the tape running, David?
Yeah, we're okay.
Okay, we got the tape rolling.
This is just ready to add to what we found out from you before about the book, You Know
the Iron Dream.
Right.
I have a release here from Timescape, which is what I'm going on.
Okay, from what I understand, the band in Germany came in late 1981, or 1981, rather.
What does that...
No, no.
Well, I'm not...
Is that what it says there?
No, I'm not sure.
The book was published in...
Yeah, I guess it would be later.
The book was published in Germany about February or so in 81.
It was banned...
And the partial...
The initial case was instituted that summer, I believe, and then there were ministerial
proceedings that went on until about February 82, at which point the book lost the second
ministerial proceedings and was totally banned.
So that's the time frame.
Okay, could you explain to us briefly what the term ban means?
Well, the term ban means you can't buy it, then you can't sell it.
Simply.
There are two kinds of bans.
First of all, I believe it's in there, but basically the law states that anyone can complain
to anyone, can complain to a police station, that a book or another work of art, for that
matter, is unfit to the eyes of children.
At which point a ministerial executive proceedings has started.
During that proceedings, before anything is even decided, the book can still be sold,
but it can't be displayed or advertised.
In other words, you can buy it under the counters if it were condoms in the 1950s or something.
Then a panel is selected of notable citizens or whatever, church leaders, youth group leaders,
things like that.
They form a kind of executive jury to rule on this.
What happened with the iron dream is that the first time they did this, it was a tie
and they couldn't come to a decision.
They went back and did this procedure again and that commission banned the book, which
means it's banned.
You can't buy it.
It is now being appealed to the courts.
As far as you know, it's impossible to get a copy of it in Germany.
Well, it's not quite impossible to get a copy of it because it was sold several months
before this happened.
There are a few copies, I don't know how many, probably several tens of thousands of copies
drifting around that people have already bought, but you cannot buy it in Germany at
this point in a bookstore or any place like that.
Okay, I'm pretty sure I know your answer to this, but I'd like you to state it anyhow.
What's your reaction to it, the ban?
What's my reaction to the ban?
My reaction to the ban is very complicated.
First of all, it took ten years to get this book published in Germany.
All my French friends said it would never be published in Germany.
So when a Heineberg, you know, summoned up the courage to publish it, I was very pleased
and I thought that this was going to, you know, that this represented the kind of maturity
on the part of Germany that they're willing to look at this stuff and I felt very good
about it being published there and I was a bit surprised.
Now that it's banned, obviously I feel that, well, the book says it all.
The book itself, in a way, is about why it was banned because it's the same sort of mentality
that goes around banning books that resulted in a different kind of way in the Third Reich.
It's not to say that all Germans are like this because the publisher has fought this
all the way and is continuing to fight it.
Most of the German newspapers, there's been a lot of coverage,
supported the book against the ban.
The German chapter of World SF had a vote and issued a public statement against the ban
in supporting the book.
So, you know, I think it's a very retrogressive thing and it says something about, I suppose,
the German political and social system is that they do not understand the concept that is embodied
in the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
And it's a particularly pernicious law because anything can be banned under this law
or under the ground that it's not fit for children, even if it's not intended for children,
which is exactly the kind of thing that the moral majority is trying to do here,
which tells you what kind of people they are, too.
OK, I don't see how it's possible to misunderstand your intention in the book and for anybody
who could possibly admire Farrick Jagger.
Do you think that any readers in Germany, young readers, would be in danger from reading it?
Well, any. I mean, you know, you know, Hinkley certainly misunderstood St.
Taxi driver, so there's always schizophrenics and maniacs around who can misunderstand anything.
I mean, David Harwood's heard demons in his head.
I mean, there are always completely crazy people who can read things out of something
that were never in there.
So, like, you want two people around, you know, psychotics who could get anything out of any book.
But I don't see the book is written on two levels.
The sophisticated readers, they understand what it is to begin with.
The other level is that the kind of people who are into things like Terry Rodin and that kind of proto-fascist
science fantasy, would start off reading the book, maybe identifying with Farrick Jagger,
you know, a third of the way into it, and then suddenly realizing what it is they're identifying
with. And so it becomes a kind of deprogramming experience for the kind of people that they
claim would be harmed. I think it would be a very strongly anti-Nazi book, precisely for those
kinds of young people who might have leanings in that direction, because they would then be confronted
with what it is that they're really identifying with. So, no, I don't, you know, I think it is,
I think it would be a more positive anti-Nazi deprogramming experience for the sort of naive
reader who, you know, grew up on Terry Rodin and that kind of crap, rather than, you know,
tend to make them identify. I don't think anybody can read the whole book and get through it and
still identify with Farrick Jagger. Okay, just one more. I guess it's, yeah, the reaction to the
Iron Dream and other European countries. I think, for instance, in France, you won the
pre-apollo for it. It must have done over pretty well in rest of Europe, right?
This book has been published now in the United States, Britain, France, Japan, Spain, Portugal,
Argentina, Italy, forget where else, about eight different countries. It's been published in the
Axis Powers, published in Argentina, and it's been extensively reviewed in about eight different
countries. There's no, I have no instance where the book was misunderstood and was taken as anything,
but an anti-Nazi and anti-fascist novel throughout the world. It's the only instance of it. In fact,
in Germany itself, Stern Magazine, which is hardly a liberal publication over there,
to like the Time Magazine of Germany or something like that, and I believe it's owned by
Actual Springer for that matter, when they reviewed the book, they gave it a very favorable review
in Germany. And what they said, among other things in their review, that it was something of a
disgrace, that it took ten years for a book like this to be published in Germany, where it would be
most useful to have it published. They sort of tried it in Germany itself, but they took ten
years to publish a book. So even in Germany, the press did not take it in the wrong one.
Okay, before I let you go, I just, I'd like to, I was curious, the movie, the movie rights to
Bugjack Baron that you've sold, I read the piece in Starlog about it. How's that going? Is that
look like it's going to go through? Yeah, that looks like a very strong project. The movie rights
have, the book has been bought out. Harlem has had a third of the way through the script.
Costa Garvers, as I understand it, is moving to California to start pre-production, because the
book is going to be made in America, not in France. And I would expect that it would, that it will be
made, talking about the start, starting shooting early next year, possibly this far. But of course,
you never know what the shooting schedule is going to be until I finalize the script. But the thing
is progressing, and I would expect it will be made. That's great. I was pleased to read that.
And also, one more thing, the, this Timescape release on the Iron Dream said that your next
book was The Void Captain's Tale. It's coming out in January. I'd assume then, since they're putting
it out, that is a science fiction book. Yes, it's a science fiction book. It's a hard cover.
Okay, maybe just one or two sentences on what it concerns?
Oh my God, well, it's a very difficult book to describe in one or two sentences. It takes place
entirely on, it's one week on a spaceship. It's about, it's about metaphysics, sex, and, and, and,
and space travel. It's, it's predicated upon a faster than a light drive that is built around
orgasm. And it's about a relationship between the captain of the ship and the pilot who is a kind
of organic module in the star drive, who's, who is kind of electronically pushed to orgasm, which
has to do with the mechanics of the star drive itself and the cycle, and it's a psychological
story, but it's a sort of a love story between these two people. It is also written in a, it takes
place about 3000, 4000 years in the future, and it is told by the captain of the spaceship
in a sort of complicated diary, not in a diary format, but it's told by, by the character of the
spaceship in his own language, which is a, an extrapolation of the situation in which
human languages have sort of co-arrest into one language, except be everybody speaks a different
dialect of this, of, of the same human lingo. And so it is a, it's written in a very experimental
kind of prose. It's, it's, it's full of our foreign words and foreign expressions. And I think it,
it represents something I haven't done since bug jack baron and something that nobody's really done
since, since the sixties. It's written in a very, it's, it, the prose itself is, is future oriented
and, and made up and is an integral part of the book.
Okay, good. We'll look forward to that. Okay, listen, we'll, we'll send you these tapes on. I think
probably we'll get two shows out of this one on what you'd given us earlier on the book, and then
you're, you're, you know, your reactions to that band. By the way, the same issue of starlog that
had that little piece in bug jack baron had a little article about us, if you're interested, it was
a page afterwards. Okay, and I think there are two stations in New York now that carry us, one in
Fredonia, one in green veil or green something. Yeah, so I don't think there's any of the
metropolitan area that you could pick up, but when, when, if there ever are, we'll go ahead and send
you the names of the stations. Do you have any idea when this is going to run? Let's see, okay,
we're early June, probably July, mid-July, maybe the end of July. It'll be, I think your book comes
out this month, uh, timescape, the paperback edition. So it might give a little boost to that
if enough people listen to it. Listen, we appreciate your time again and hope you have a
productive trip to France. Okay. And thank you very much again, Mr. Spindrap. By the way,
I have one more little item which would be just relevance to you. Good. Is that my book, The
Mind Game, is being done as a full 90-minute radio play in France this summer.
A radio play? A radio drama, a radio play, yes. Our French national radio.
Apparently they do stuff like that over there, which is kind of interesting. It's a good format for
for many things. They're doing a 90-minute radio play.
In France. That will be in France, right? It will be in France. Yeah, okay, there'd be no use for,
I guess it won't be a script or anything available in English. Well, I guess it might be a script
if somebody could, that could be translated, but the script will be in France. Okay, is there
anything else? I mean, you might think of adding that we could, you know, little items that we
stick to, you know, show? I do have a book on writing coming out in a form called Staying Alive,
which is a collection of my Locust columns with a lot of additional material published by by Donning.
And that'll be out around September, October. And also in the four will be The Children of
Hamelin will be done by a small press outfit called Pequod Press. This is the thing that was
a novel that was never been before before being published in book form. It was serialized in
Los Angeles Free Press in about 1972 or so and was never published in book form anywhere. This will
be its first book publication. That'll also be in a form. Yeah, I think we got some information
from you on that one the last time we spoke with you. That's right. Yeah. Okay, listen, we've taken
enough of your time, I guess. We better let you go. And again, we appreciate very much your time
and we'll be sending the tapes on to you when the show is air. Okay, you're very welcome. Thank you.
Have a good trip. Bye bye.